---
layout: page
title: 18-358: Principles of Amateur Radio
permalink: /ece358/
---

# Course Description
This class aims to introduce you to the world of amateur radio. It will prepare you for the Technician
class amateur radio licensing exam, with emphasis on demonstrating what you could do once you
get the license. Though the class material focuses on the entry-level Technician exam, you have
the opportunity to obtain the General and Extra licenses as well. This class welcomes ANYONE
interested in becoming a licensed amateur radio user, regardless of major or background.

# Learning Outcomes
By taking this course, you will...
- Become a licensed amateur radio operator!
- Understand space weather forecasts!
- Know why antennas come in so many different shapes and sizes!
- Understand the active role that amateur radio plays in modern society!
- Figure out what interests you about ham radio, and what to do with your license!

# Instructor
Tom Zajdel
Hamerschlag Hall A210
tzajdel@andrew.cmu.edu

# Grading Criteria
This course is a 6-unit course. Completing the Reflection and passing the licensing exam will earn a pass.

# Reflection
Due at the end of the course is a reflection that communicates your experience with amateur radio through this course.
The format is flexible - the communication medium could be written, auditory, visual, or something else.
The ideas communicated should be roughly equivalent to 300-500 words. Here are some questions to get you started:
- What do you think of amateur radio having finished the course?
- What do you think you will do with your license?
- What was your favorite hands-on demo in the class?

# Spring 2022 Schedule (Tentative)

| Week | Day | Date | Topic | Reading |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | M | 14-Mar | Seminar: Radio and Signal Fundamentals | Chapters 1 & 2 |
|   | W | 16-Mar | Demo: Software-defined Radio, FLDIGI |  |
| 2 | M | 21-Mar | Seminar: Electricity, Components, and Circuits | Chapter 3 |
|   | W | 23-Mar | Project: Soldering a radio |  |
| 3 | M | 28-Mar | Seminar: Propagation, Antennas and Feed Lines | Chapter 4 |
|   | W | 30-Mar | Project: Yagi-Uda Build |  |
| 4 | M |  4-Apr | Seminar: Amateur Radio Equipment | Chapter 5 |
|   | W |  6-Apr | Demo: Transmitter Hunt |  |
| 5 | M | 11-Apr | Seminar: Communication with Other Hams | Chapter 6 |
|   | W | 13-Apr | Demo: Buggy Net |  |
| 6 | M | 18-Apr | Seminar: Licensing and Operating Regulations | Chapters 7 & 8 |
|   | W | 20-Apr | Demo: Field Day | |
| 7 | M | 25-Apr | Seminar: Safety | Chapter 9 | |
|   | W | 27-Apr | Licensing Exam | |

# Links
- [W3VC - Carnegie Tech Radio Club](http://www.w3vc.org/)
- [ARRL - Amateur Radio Relay League](http://www.arrl.org/what-is-ham-radio)